



International Action by Parliamentary Governments.  
Justin Napolitano


The international system is hierarchic, because it can be shown that “one unit[a state], possesses authority over a second.”   This being the case, I claim that states compete for relative position within the structure, dependent upon the relative ability of a state to exert influence, upon the system.  This may be naval or martial in nature, but may also include economic and cultural pressures.  As such the “want” of any state is to acquire the topmost position within the system. 
“Institutions constrain state behavior and facilitate cooperation” among them.  In much the same way the institutions, formal and informal restrict the behavior of the state.  The institutions within said state, reflect the primary objectives of its most powerful interest groups.  In the same way, the most powerful states within the international system, set the rules of conduct and create the institutions that allow for the development of generalized patterns of state behavior.  In other words, David Lake’s theoretical framework of the organization of the international power system applies also to the power system within a state.  Which allows one to claim that state is an institution, comprised of a hegemonic interest group that regulates the competition of other sub-state actors, like a hegemonic state regulates the competing interests of other states.  Thus, the want of a state is equivalent to the want of the hegemonic sub-state actor.  
	Now to predict what a state wants, one must predict first what the interest of the Hegemonic state of the international system wants.  To do so, look to the hegemonic interest group within the hegemon.  This group will set the behavior of the state, and define the institutions it upholds.  Next, to predict the action of other states within the system, consider their resource potential, and also the groups within it that may gain from the system as it stands at that specific moment in time. The state, will act in a way to maximize gain for the sub-state actor.

References

Lake, David A. 2007.  “Escape from the State of Nature: Authority and Hierarchy in International Politics”. International Security Journal. MIT Press

